= DESCRIPTION: 

<p>Install Basic Networking Tools and Utilities for Debian, Ubuntu, CentOS, and Redhat.</p>

<ul>
<li>
<strong> - lsof : </strong>
Lsof is a Unix-specific diagnostic tool.  
Its name stands for LiSt Open Files, and it does just that.  
It lists information about any files that are open, by processes currently running on the system.
</li>

<li>
<strong> - iptables : </strong>
administration tools for packet filtering and NAT
These are the user-space administration tools for the Linux kernel's netfilter and iptables.
netfilter and iptables provide a framework for stateful and stateless packet filtering, network and
port address translation, and other IP packet manipulation. The framework is the successor to
ipchains.
</li>

<li>
<strong> - jwhois : </strong>
Improved Caching Whois client
GNU jwhois is an Internet Whois client that queries hosts for information according to RFC 954 -
NICNAME/WHOIS. JWHOIS is configured via a configuration file that contains information about all
known Whois servers. Upon execution, the host to query is selected based on the information in the
configuration file.
</li>
<li>
<strong> - whois : </strong>
This is a new whois (RFC 3912) client rewritten from scratch. It is inspired from and compatible
with the usual BSD and RIPE whois(1) programs. It is intelligent and can automatically select the
appropriate whois server for most queries.
</li>
<li>
<strong> - curl : </strong>
Get a file from an HTTP, HTTPS or FTP server
curl is a client to get files from servers using any of the supported protocols. The command is
designed to work without user interaction or any kind of interactivity.
</li>
<li>
<strong> - wget : </strong>
Wget is a network utility to retrieve files from the Web using http(s) and ftp, the two most widely
used Internet protocols. It works non-interactively, so it will work in the background, after
having logged off. The program supports recursive retrieval of web-authoring pages as well as ftp
sites -- you can use wget to make mirrors of archives and home pages or to travel the Web like a
WWW robot.
</li>
<li>
<strong> - rsync : </strong>
rsync is a program that allows files to be copied to and from remote machines in much the same way
as rcp.  It has many more options than rcp, and uses the rsync remote-update protocol to greatly
speed up file transfers when the destination file already exists. 
</li>
<li>
<strong> - jnettop : </strong>
View hosts/ports taking up the most network traffic
jNettop captures traffic coming across the host it is running on and displays streams sorted by
bandwidth they use. Result is a nice listing of communication on network by host and port, how many
bytes went through this transport and the bandwidth it is consuming.
</li>
<li>
<strong> - nmap : </strong>
Nmap is a utility for network exploration or security auditing. It supports ping scanning
(determine which hosts are up), many port scanning techniques, version detection (determine service
protocols and application versions listening behind ports), and TCP/IP fingerprinting (remote host
OS or device identification). Nmap also offers flexible target and port specification,
decoy/stealth scanning, sunRPC scanning, and more. Most Unix and Windows platforms are supported in
both GUI and commandline modes. Several popular handheld devices are also supported, including the
Sharp Zaurus and the iPAQ.
</li>
<li>
<strong> - traceroute : </strong>
</li>
<li>
<strong> - ethtool : </strong>
</li>
<li>
<strong> - iproute : </strong>
</li>
<li>
<strong> - iputils-ping : </strong>
</li>
<li>
<strong> - netcat-openbsd : </strong>
</li>
<li>
<strong> - tcpdump : </strong>
</li>
<li>
<strong> - elinks : </strong>
</li>
<li>
<strong> - lynx : </strong>
</ul>
